Project description:
Event-based reputation detection and its application to market data

Main competencies considered in this project. 
The main skills that will be mastered during this project are programming in python, as all the scripts that will be produced during the project will be done the python programming language. The development of the programs will be done following software engineering principles. Hence it is vital to understand and later master the different software engineering processes. In order to be able to evaluate the historical data of the normal stock and crypto prices, it is essential to consider statistical analysis skills and their implementation as algorithms.

Main objectives of the BSP
During this project we will produce a mathematical model of the production rate of the "Bitcoin". We are interested in the cryptomining of the "Bitcoin". In more detail, the model will describe the "stock-to-flow". We are also interested in the part of "non-tradable" coins. Cryptomining only produces a part of the total coins available for trade, a certain portion is blocked and is not available for trade. Estimating this quantity can further improve our understanding of how the bitcoin rates behave. We will later investigate the impact of the reputation or popularity on its price rates. In order to evaluate this popularity metric it is first essential to determine the features that are relevant to evaluate. We want to estimate whether there is a correlation between the price and that reputation metric. 

The scientific aspects of this project
In the scientific part of the project, we will aim to answer to following question: Is there a difference between traditional markets and crypto markets about event-based responses to changes in reputation?
In order to answer this question it is first necessary to evaluate the event based responses of the prices of the changes in reputation of traditional markets in the first place and then the crypto markets. A python script is developed to highlight the growth rates of companies that have seen their security rating modified in a given year. In the case of traditional markets, we will base the evaluation of the reputation on their security ratings. The ratings that will be taken into account are the ones provided by S&P and Moody's. This constitutes the first task. In a second step, we will define the criteria for evaluating the popularity of a crypto-coin and perform a similar analysis of their prices over time. 

The technical aspects of this project
The technical part of the project focuses on the implementation of the mathematical model established previously as a python program. As explained in the scientific description of the project, we will first focus on the development of a python script that will present the daily and yearly growth rates of every company that has seen its security rating updated in the given year. This program uses historical data that has been collected by previous students. This data is composed of the security ratings of the companies in 3 markets: the DAX, FTSE and NIKKEI markets. We are also interested in the daily opening and closing prices of those companies. This allows us to compute the daily growth rate on a company level, as well as comparing it to the growth rate of the entire market, in order to compare and visualize the correlation of both rates. The progress made until now is the selection of the companies that have seen changes in their security ratings. The resulting list of companies is then used to compute the yearly and daily rates. The next step will be to compare these rates to the market rates using a linear regression. 

The goal is to perform predictions on a set of Bitcoin values over time. Similarly to the first part of the technical part, we want to show the correlation between the popularity and price of the bitcoin. In order to complete this task, we first need to define and select the features that show as accurately as possible the popularity of the coin. 

The development process of the program will iterate between the prediction process, evaluation of the results in the scientific section, make adjustments to the current model or change approach, and testing. The development will apply software engineering techniques. Meaning that a use-case model and instances, a concept model, an environment model and operation model will be produced. The objective is to follow this iterative process until satisfactory result with respect to the requirements defined are met.
